# Apr - Dana Pe’er

**Speaker**: Dana Pe’er

[Download Seminar Poster:material-file-pdf-box:](http://www.vanbug.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/04/vanbug-poster_2014_april.pdf "vanbug-poster_2014_april.pdf")

### PIMS Distinguished Speaker

**Talk Title:** “Revealing heterogeneity between and within tumors”

!!! info "Event Details"
    
    
    **Date/Time:**
    
    Thursday, April 10, 2014, 6:00pm

**Affiliation:** Associate Professor, Department of Biological Sciences and Systems Biology, Columbia University

**Bio:**

Dana Pe’er is an associate professor in the Departments of Biological Sciences and Systems Biology. Our team develops computational methods that integrate diverse high-throughput data to provide a holistic, systems-level view of molecular networks. Currently we have two key focuses: developing computational methods to interpret single cell data and understand cellular heterogeneity; Modeling how genetic and epigenetic variation alters regulatory network function and subsequently phenotype in health and disease. This path has led us to explore how systems biology approaches can be used to personalize cancer care. Dana is recipient of the Burroughs Wellcome Fund Career Award, NIH Directors New Innovator Award, NSF CAREER award, Stand Up To Cancer Innovative Research Grant and a Packard Fellow in Science and Engineering.

**URL:** [Dana Pe’er](http://www.c2b2.columbia.edu/danapeerlab/html/)

**Abstract:**

Systematic characterization of cancer genomes has revealed a staggering complexity and heterogeneity of aberrations among individuals. More recently appreciated that intra-tumor heterogeneity is of critical importance, each tumor harboring sub-populations that vary in clinically important phenotypes such as drug sensitivity. A major challenge involves the development of analysis methods to integrate the flood of high-throughput data on tumors towards a past of personalized care. We will elaborate on two computational approaches on this path: (1) Integration of genetic and genomic data to identify genetic determinants of cancer. (2) Single cell analysis of signaling based on mass cytometry, a novel technology that can accurately measure more than forty signaling molecules simultaneously single cells.

**Please note:**

Trainees are invited to meet with the VanBUG speaker for open discussion of both science and career paths. This takes place 4:30-5:30pm in either the Boardroom or Lunchroom on the ground floor of the BCCRC

**Recommended Readings**

---

**Introductory Speaker:** Emilia Lim (PhD student, Dr. Marco Marra Lab, BCCRC)

**Title:** “Comprehensive miRNA Sequence Analysis Reveals Survival Differences in Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma Patients”

