# Feb - Hosna Jabbari

!!! info "Event Details"

    **Date/Time:**

    Thursday, February 16th, 2023 :material-clock: 6:00pm - 9:00pm PT

    :material-map-marker: **Location:** St. Paul's Hospital ([1081 Burrard Street, Vancouver, BC V6Z 1Y6](https://goo.gl/maps/uCFbWCXcVrLmMnch7)), Cullen Family Lecture Theatre ([Providence Building, Level 1, Room 1477](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xHHd14LcrDIZLG7RGBGneLgf12H-FJwpyH7rotQCo9k/edit?usp=sharing))

    **RSVP:**

    If you are interested in attending this seminar *in person*, please fill out [the RSVP form](https://forms.gle/FRwQJ4VS4t7JnPve7).

    **Zoom Meeting:**

https://ubc.zoom.us/j/69761055714?pwd=ZjEvT0ZPYTlieWZHOXdqRWYvMjZGQT09

Meeting ID: 697 6105 5714
Passcode: 480734

One tap mobile
+17789072071,,69761055714#,,,,,,0#,,480734#

Dial by your location
+1 778 907 2071 (Vancouver)
+1 647 374 4685 (Toronto)
+1 647 375 2970 (Toronto)
+1 647 375 2971 (Toronto)
+1 204 272 7920 (Manitoba)
+1 438 809 7799 (Montreal)
+1 587 328 1099 (Alberta)
+1 613 209 3054 (Ottawa)

Meeting ID: 697 6105 5714
Passcode: 480734

Join from a videoconferencing system
IP: 65.39.152.160
Meeting ID: 697 6105 5714
Passcode: 480734

SIP: 69761055714@vn.zmca.us
Passcode: 480734

**Featured Speaker**: [Dr. Hosna Jabbari](https://www.uvic.ca/ecs/computerscience/people/faculty/profiles/jabbari-hosna.php)

**Affiliation:** Assistant Professor, Computer Science, University of Victoria

**Talk Title:** Unravelling RNA function through structure prediction

**Abstract:**

Until recently, RNA molecules were considered merely the carrier of information from DNA to proteins. This view, however, has changed as numerous functional roles of RNA molecules have now been discovered. Determining RNA function is complex and, in some cases, still infeasible experimentally. As RNA’s function is mainly determined by its shape, computational methods determining RNA structure provide unique opportunities to help in determining RNA function.
During my academic career I have extensively studied RNA structure in order to aid with function determination. In this talk, I showcase some of the algorithms we developed via their application in determining some functional sites of SARS-CoV-2, the virus responsible for the COVID-19 pandemic. I further discuss their potential in discovering novel treatments and vaccines for current and future contagions, highlighting some challenges and future opportunities.

**Bio:**

Dr. Hosna Jabbari is currently an assistant professor at the Department of Computer Science at the University of Victoria. Prior to joining the University of Victoria, Dr. Jabbari held an assistant professorship at the University of Vermont, USA. She completed her PhD from the University of British Columbia. Her main research goal is to help diagnose and cure human diseases by developing novel diagnostics and therapeutics through research using techniques from bioinformatics, data science and computational genomics. Dr. Jabbari is the founding director of the Computational Biology Research & Analytics (COBRA) lab, and a faculty fellow at the Institute of Aging and Lifelong Health.

---

**Trainee Speaker:** [Caralyn Reisle](https://ca.linkedin.com/in/caralyn-reisle)

**Affiliation:** PhD Candidate, Dr. Steven Jones Lab, University of British Columbia

**Talk Title**: Fact Checking Cancer Knowledge Bases using Natural Language Processing
