# Mar - Karin Verspoor

!!! info "Event Details"

    **Date/Time:**

    Thursday, March 9th, 2023 :material-clock: 6:00pm - 9:00pm PT

    :material-map-marker: **Location:** St. Paul's Hospital ([1081 Burrard Street, Vancouver, BC V6Z 1Y6](https://goo.gl/maps/uCFbWCXcVrLmMnch7)), Cullen Family Lecture Theatre ([Providence Building, Level 1, Room 1477](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xHHd14LcrDIZLG7RGBGneLgf12H-FJwpyH7rotQCo9k/edit?usp=sharing))

    **RSVP:**

    If you are interested in attending this seminar *in person*, please fill out [the RSVP form](https://forms.gle/X633xrC1ybVW4Lme8).

    **Zoom Meeting:**

    <URL PENDING>
    <br>Meeting ID: <PENDING>
    <br>Password: <PENDING>
    <br>Dial by your location <PENDING>
    <br>Find your local number: <PENDING>

**Featured Speaker**: [Dr. Karin Verspoor](https://www.rmit.edu.au/contact/staff-contacts/academic-staff/v/verspoor-professor-karin)

**Affiliation:** Dean, School of Computing Technologies, RMIT University in Melbourne, Australia

**Talk Title:** Why Bother Enabling Biomedical Literature Analysis with Semantics?

**Abstract:**

These days, ELMo, BERT, BART and other similarly cutely-named models appear to have dramatically advanced the state of the art in basically every problem in natural language processing and information retrieval. It can leave a researcher wondering whether there is more to language processing than deploying or fine-tuning contextual word embeddings. What of formal semantics and knowledge representation? What value do these bring to text analysis, either in modelling or in task definitions? In this talk, I will try to explore these questions, from the perspective of my long-running experiences in biomedical information extraction and literature exploration. Perhaps we can shift the academic conversation from a one-model-fits-all solution for individual tasks to a more nuanced consideration of complex, multi-faceted problems in which such models certainly can play a critical role but aren’t necessarily "all you need”.

**Bio:**

Professor Karin Verspoor is Executive Dean of the School of Computing Technologies at RMIT University in Melbourne, Australia, a Fellow of the Australasian Institute of Digital Health, and a 2021 “Brilliant Woman in Digital Health”. She was also selected as a finalist in the Women in AI Australia/New Zealand Awards 2022 for “AI in Innovation”. Karin is passionate about using data and AI to improve health outcomes for people. Her work has a specific emphasis on the use of natural language processing to transform unstructured data in biomedicine, ranging from scientific literature to clinical texts, into actionable information.

---

**Trainee Speaker:** [Andrew Galbraith](https://ca.linkedin.com/in/andrew-galbraith-168553200)

**Affiliation:** MSc Student, Dr. Steven Jones Lab, University of British Columbia

**Talk Title**: Genome-Wide Detection of DNA Hydroxymethylation in Various Cancer Types Using Nanopore Sequencing
