# Dec - “How to become an entrepreneur”

**Speaker**: “How to become an entrepreneur”

**Abstract:**

UBC’s venture accelerator entrepreneurship@UBC provides real-world support to help UBC faculty, students, staff and recent alumni to take their ideas from innovative concept to successful venture. Director of New Ventures Sean Lumb and Program Director Blair Simonite will show you how entrepreneurial people from UBC Life Sciences engage with the industry experts and programs at e@UBC to create ventures that put their ideas to work in the outside world.

**Talk Session Title:**

“How to become an entrepreneur?”

!!! info "Event Details"
    
    
    **Date/Time:**
    
    Thursday, December 10, 2015.
    
    5:30 – 6:30 pm : Main Event
    
    6:30 – 9:00 pm : Reception

**Speaker 1:**

**Blair Simonite** (Adjunct Professor, Sauder School of Business, UBC & Program Directory entrepreneurship@UBC)

[Web-site: Sauder School of Business, UBC](http://www.sauder.ubc.ca/Faculty/People/Faculty_Members/Simonite_Blair)

[Linkedin profile](https://ca.linkedin.com/in/blairsimonite)

**Bio:**

Blair Simonite teaches entrepreneurship and innovation at the Sauder School of Business and is Program Director of the entrepreneurship@UBC accelerator, providing real-world support to help entrepreneurial UBC faculty, students, staff and alumni move from innovative concept to successful venture. He has over 30 years of technology industry experience as an executive, board member, and investor, with a focus on software and clean-tech.

**Speaker 2:**

**Sean Lumb** (Director, New Ventures, entrepreneurship@UBC)

[Linkedin profile](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sean-lumb-0640382)

**Bio:**

Sean is currently Director New Ventures for entrepreneurship@UBC, supporting e@UBC ventures from ideation to financing and company building. With a PhD in chemistry, Sean’s career has focused on technology commercialization, new venture creation and financing, primarily in the human health field. Notable successful ventures include Aquinox Pharmaceuticals, Fibrotech Therapeutics, Clarity Pharmaceuticals, and Procypra Therapeutics.

