# May - Denise Daley

**Speaker**: Denise Daley

**Talk Title:** Developing a Genetic Risk Index for Peanut Allergy

!!! info "Event Details"
    
    
    **Date/Time:**
    
    Thursday, May 9th, 2019 6:00pm

**Affiliation:** Associate Professor of Medicine, University of British Columbia

**Bio:**

Dr. Denise Daley completed a PhD in Epidemiology and Biostatistics at Case Western Reserve University in 2003, followed by post-doctoral training at the University of British Columbia from 2003-2008. In 2008 she was awarded a Tier II Canadian Research Chair (genetic epidemiology of common complex diseases), renewed in 2013 and she is currently an Associate Professor in the Faculty of Medicine at the University of British Columbia. Dr. Daley’s interests are in the study of complex diseases such as asthma, food allergy, allergic disease, cancer and heart disease, with a focus on gene-gene and gene-environment interactions. Dr. Daley is studying genetic susceptibility to asthma and other allergic conditions and the complex epigenetic mechanisms that may be involved. She is working to determine what contribution gender, genes, and environment make to the development of asthma and how the epigenome responds to environmental exposures such as tobacco smoke.

**Abstract:**

Over 200 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) have been found to be associated with food allergy (FA) in genome-wide association studies (GWAS). A Genetic risk score (GRS), is an index that can be derived from genome-wide association studies to summarize the genetic risk encompassed by a set of SNPs, and is useful in risk stratification and prediction. Our objective was to use information from the Canadian Peanut Allergy Registry (CanPAR) GWAS study to develop a GRS and evaluate the positive predictive value of the GRS in CanPAR and the Canadian Asthma Primary Prevention Study (CAPPS).

**Please note:**

Trainees are invited to meet with the VanBUG speaker for open discussion of both science and career paths. This takes place 5:00-5:45pm in either the Boardroom or Lunchroom on the ground floor of the BCCRC

---

**Introductory Speaker:** Sina Jafarzadeh (PhD student at Mostafavi Lab, Centre for Molecular Medicine and Therapeutics, BCCHR; and at UBC)

**Talk Title**: GeneCOMET: Inferring Gene Co-Methylation Network Using Sparse Latent Model

**Webcast Link:** <https://vidyoreplay.computecanada.ca/replay/webcastShow.html?key=OS63GYOfyFK3aRo>

(This technology is brought to you by Compute Canada and WestGrid with support from PHSA Telehealth)

